# Pyrolysis-Simulator
The increasing generation of urban plastic waste represents a significant environmental challenge, demanding effective technological solutions to mitigate its impact. Various technologies are being studied and developed to reduce such impacts, including incineration, mechanical recycling, pyrolysis, solvolysis, and biological depolymerization. Among these, the pyrolysis process stands out as a promising alternative due to its high potential for upcycling, meaning the generation of high-value carbon compounds.
The main objective of the present work was to evaluate the feasibility of treating urban plastic waste through the simulation of an optimized pyrolysis process, aiming at its utilization as a raw material in fuel production. The pyrolysis process was modeled using the PYTHON programming language, based on 3-lumped and 6-lumped models, fed with literature data to validate the process understanding. The simulation results were validated with literature data and real solid waste data, including the pyrolysis of high-density polyethylene (HDPE), polypropylene (PP), and a mixture of polyethylene (PE) and polypropylene (PP).
For the simulated polymers, the initial pyrolysis temperature varied between 300째C and 400째C, depending on the material's composition, and the stabilization temperature was observed between 450째C and 550째C. The pyrolysis simulation of HDPE resulted in a liquid production of 60.59%, while for PP, the liquid production reached 86.40%, and for the HDPE and PP mixture, 85.67%. The analysis of the results indicated the potential of pyrolysis as a method for plastic waste valorization, with the production of liquid and gaseous fractions.
